- Hello.
I guess my mic is on and
I guess we're beginning.
Okay.
Thank you for the nice introduction.
I'm...
I'm being facetious.
It's the end of the day.
Everybody's tired.
We all want to go to sleep, right?
Yes.
Let's go party.
I'm Sal Soghoian.
I'm the AppleScript Product Manager and
the Automated Product Manager for
Apple Computer.
Thank you for coming here today
and spending some time with me.
When we originally were talking
about what sessions to design for
the Developer Conference this year,
one of the ideas that kept coming
up was the fact that there's a lot
of interest in using AppleScript,
especially now that Automator
has expanded the scope of
what the language can do.
There's been a lot of interest from
programmers in using AppleScript,
maybe not full-time,
maybe just an occasional script.
And it's always been very
daunting and challenging for
programmers to use this language.
They're very frustrated by it.
And I thought that maybe a session
on AppleScript for programmers,
people that already know how to program,
people already know how to use code,
people already know how to
make money doing what they do,
but occasionally want to use
AppleScript and would like
it demystified for them.
That's what this session is about.
Is that what you understood to be true?
Okay.
[Transcript missing]
If you want this presentation,
there is a URL that you can
go get the presentation.
It's up on www.automator.us.
You can download this presentation
in your leisure and peruse it again
to become an educated scripter.
That's not my real name,
it's just what Steve calls me.
Saul, who you all know.
My real email address is sal@apple.com.
You're welcome to send me an email.
Okay, this session, like I just stated,
is for people that are
used to programming,
understand structures, understand,
you know, constructs,
understand repetitive loops,
understand all those kind of things,
but they're interested in learning
about AppleScript and what
makes it so funky and so cool.
So what you're going to learn today is,
first of all, what is AppleScript,
what a basic overview of what
the language is and how it works,
all the little funky things about it,
and how it can target
scriptable applications,
how you can refer to scriptable
items within the applications,
including disk items in the Finder or
tracks in iTunes or other applications.
You're going to learn how to find items,
use AppleScript to find things.
AppleScript's wonderful.
It's really,
really good at locating specific
things within an application and
then returning those back to you so
that you can do cool stuff with them.
You're going to learn the basic things
about how AppleScript does a repeat loop,
how AppleScript does a conditional,
how AppleScript does an error handler.
It's a little bit different
than what you're used to.
Some of the things might look similar.
Some of them just won't
make any sense at all,
and some of them you'll go,
what am I doing this for?
I could be having lunch
downstairs instead.
And then we'll look at some
of the AppleScript tools
that are on the computer,
like the script editor
and the script menu.
So let's begin.
What is AppleScript?
Well, AppleScript is a very high-level
language that's used to control
and query scriptable applications.
Those include things
like Microsoft Office,
all the Adobe Creative Suite, iPhoto,
iDVD, iTunes are some of the apps,
the address book.
There's a lot of scriptable applications,
and AppleScript is the language that's
used to talk to these applications and
to get them to do what you want to do.
It's designed to be
used by people who are,
dare I say normal?
No.
Are we normal?
No, we're not normal, are we?
We're better than normal.
Okay.
So we're on this side of normal.
AppleScript is designed to be used by,
you know,
motivated Macintosh customers who want
to be able to control the computer
to get it to do what they want to do.
And AppleScript was originally
designed back in 1992 to be that way,
that tool for them to be able
to control their computer.
It's well integrated into Mac OS X.
It's lots of scriptable applications
like I just talked about.
It has scriptable access to
the different frameworks,
to shell web services, data events,
image events, XML parsing, PList parsing.
All of those things are
accessible from AppleScript.
So the scope of the
language is rather broad.
It can do a lot of different things.
It's a duct tape role that
covers the entire computer.
And now we have AppleScript Studio,
which allows you to build applications,
native Mac OS X applications,
using AppleScript.
So we're a peer development
language with the other languages
in the operating system.
And now with Automator and Tiger,
we've taken it to the next step
where you can take discrete bits of
functionality and present them to the
customer and allow them to put them in
the order that they want to accomplish
the kind of things that they want to do.
Now, 80% of Apple's top-tier
customers use AppleScript.
For example,
this picture is of a rack of excerpts.
Those racks of excerpts are handling
7,000 print publication jobs daily.
I can't tell you where the company is,
but that's a rack of excerpts
running different applications,
all controlled with AppleScript.
This is a money situation.
AppleScript's really a money technology.
There are a lot of major corporations
that you know about that build
their business using this language.
So even though it's fun
and it's easy to write,
it's a very powerful language
and it has money attached to it.
How does it work?
Well,
you compose these AppleScript scripts.
Oh, it actually looks nicer up there.
Are designed in an editing
application like Script Debugger,
which is from late-night software.
Wonderful script writing
tool and debugging tool.
Or the Script Editor application,
which comes in your
application's AppleScript folder.
And this is what a script looks like.
This is a script window.
And you can see it's very
fancy interface to it.
The scripts are written
from left to right,
and they're read from the top down.
Makes sense, right?
When executed, a script, statements,
and commands are converted by the
operating system into Apple events that
are sent to the targeted application.
And then the application does whatever
it is you're telling it to do and
returns the result back to the script.
For example,
tell application finder to get the
name of the front finder window,
returns the result here of whatever
the front finder window is.
So it's this communication circle
that AppleScript's really good at.
It's not the Apple event architecture,
because that's part
of the core of the OS.
It's a high-level language that
controls and queries the Apple event
architecture underneath it.
And it's your best friend
for doing quick things,
for doing powerful things,
for doing redundant tasks.
AppleScript's really great.
Now, you can save scripts once you've
written them as documents that get run
from the system-wide script menu or an
application script menu like the script
menu in iTunes or Soundtrack Pro.
Or you can save them as self-running
applications that look like this,
or as self-running applications
that accept items dragged onto them,
hence the blue arrow,
meaning drag onto me.
That's called a droplet.
AppleScript has an English-like syntax,
and now here's where
everything gets funky.
It's not the normal kind of
language that you're used to.
For example,
what do I mean by English-like syntax?
Okay.
Move the green car before the red car.
That's something I would say.
Get the name of every student whose
graduation comes after June 1st.
That's something that we would say.
If your first name begins with a B,
then stand in the line on the left.
Otherwise,
stand in the line on the right.
Now, these are kind of statements that
are typical to the English language.
These are the kind of statements
that we use every day.
Well, AppleScript was designed to
mimic this kind of a syntax.
So the goal being that someone
could just think of what they
want to do and the actual code
would be what they just thought.
Of course,
it didn't count on TV dumbing down
America so that we can't speak anymore.
But that's the basic
principle of what's going on.
I can't resist being political.
So let's look at a syntax comparison.
Now, can you see that?
Yes, okay, good.
This is a script from using Python.
Are you familiar with Apps Script,
which is a -- it's a
Python scriptable OSA thing?
So let's take a look at the difference
between the two languages and how
they are functionally different.
Now, let's see, what does this do?
Well, I know that it uses the finder,
and it gets something.
Okay, what's it going to get?
It's going to get the name of folders
-- get the name of every folder of home,
of the home directory.
So it's going to have -- tell the finder
to get the name of every folder of home.
Well, that's what AppleScript is.
So there's the same thing,
but in two different languages.
You can see that there's totally
a 180-degree different approach in
the way that the syntax is done.
So let's take a look at another one.
Okay, let's see.
This is going to count the
words of documents one.
Tell TextEdit.
Okay,
this is going to have TextEdit count
the words of the first document.
Yes.
Tell app.txtedit to count the
words of the first document.
So that's the same thing in AppleScript.
Let's take a look at this one.
This one has something.
Ooh, it's got a test.
Let's see.
It's going to delete test something.
It's is equal to a return.
Test paragraphs, document one.
Tell application text edit to
delete every paragraph of the first
document where it is a return.
Okay.
Tell TextEdit to delete
every paragraph of the front
document where it is a return.
So inherently 180-degree
shift in your thinking.
This is a little bit of a challenge,
but we're going to spend some time
looking at the syntax so that you can
understand why it's this way and how
you can momentarily escape reality and
let your mind drift and write a line
of AppleScript and then come back into
writing some structured code again.
So here's a typical way
that AppleScript is written.
One of the things that AppleScript is
commonly used for is to get
and set the values of various
properties of scriptable objects,
whether it's the color of
a box or whether it's the
font of a word or something.
So here's a typical syntax.
Set the property of some
object to a certain value.
An example of that would be set the
color of the current box to red.
Set the name of the third track
of the first playlist to Fred.
set the label index of
every folder of Home to 3.
So this type of syntax is
very common to AppleScript.
And once you're familiar with that,
once you understand that,
then it'll become easier for you to learn
how to write these types of scripts.
[Transcript missing]
The syntax of AppleScript is
similar to English.
It says what it does most of the time,
and that's why a lot
of customers like it.
It's because they can go back into their
scripts months later and actually read
the script and figure out what it does.
"Buy Maalox by the gallon"
because no matter what you do,
it's going to drive you crazy.
So let's look at how you use
AppleScript to talk to an application.
You notice I'm using these
friendly terms like talking.
It's all part of my plan.
So a tell statement.
Well, tell statement is the rudiment
functional statement of AppleScript.
It's the workhorse of
the AppleScript world.
It targets a scriptable application.
It's a single line beginning
with the verb tell.
It contains two elements.
One, a reference to the object that
you're going to be scripting.
And two,
the action that you want to be performed.
This structure is the
heart of AppleScript.
Most of what you do with
AppleScript follows this idea of
using a tell statement to target an
application or a scriptable object.
And they always contain a
reference to the object.
So a tell statement is a reference
to the object that you're going to
script and the action to be done.
Makes sense, right?
For example,
tell application QuickTimePlayer
to tell the front movie to tell
the last track to get its duration.
So this particular version of
syntax I wrote to mimic the kind of
dot structure that we saw earlier.
Now, the reference to the object in here
is the front movie and the last track.
So you can see that the front
movie owns the last track and
is telling it to do something.
The action to perform in this
case is to get its duration.
Now, this is not a typical syntax
that scripters would use.
They would most often say
it's something like this.
Tell application QuickTimePlayer
to get the duration of the
last track of the front movie.
This is a valid tell statement
because it contains the two
things that we're looking for.
One, a reference to the object
that's going to be scripted.
In this case,
the last track of the front movie.
And two, the action to be performed.
In this case, get the duration.
So, any way you want to put
these two things together,
as long as you have a reference to the
object that's going to be controlled,
and the action to be performed,
and the statement starts
with the verb tell,
followed by the object
that's the parent object,
which is usually the application,
you're fine.
Any way that you want to
write it is fine indeed.
It will work.
And if AppleScript works, it's right.
There is no right way to do something.
There's no right way to make money.
Well, maybe there is, okay.
So this is usually the way that
you'll see AppleScript done.
Notice the little new
line character over there,
which is option L or shift return.
That just indicates that
I couldn't fit it all on one line,
and that's all that is.
So here's a tell statement.
Let's look at some more examples of
what a tell statement looks like.
Again, it begins with the verb tell,
right?
And it always contains a reference
to the object to script and
then the action to perform.
Tell application iTunes to
delete every track of playlist
My Party List whose artist is Bon Jovi.
Okay?
And this, I like them.
I do.
I listen to them.
When nobody's around,
I'll be listening to them and
all the old stuff from the 70s.
I am that old.
I'm a dinosaur looking for a tar pit.
Okay, so what is the object to control?
What is the scriptable
object we're looking for?
In this case,
it's every track of Playlist
My Party Mix whose artist is Bon Jovi.
That's the first element
of the tell statement.
What is the second?
The action to perform.
And in that case, it's the verb delete.
So this tell statement contains
everything that we're looking
for and will function and
execute in iTunes very easily.
It cleans and waxes in one motion.
It's very nice.
It not only finds and it
does at the same time.
Finds, does.
The power of AppleScript.
Let's take a look at another one.
Tell Application Finder to
duplicate every document file of
the entire contents of Fullscript.
It's the object that's being targeted.
It's every document file of the
entire contents of Folder Documents
of Home whose name contains
Smith Project to the disk name backup.
Woof.
Okay, what does that do?
Well, it goes into your Documents folder,
finds every documents file that contains
the name Smith Project in its name,
then copies it over onto
this disk name backup.
All of that done with
one line of AppleScript.
First of all,
it's the object that's being targeted.
It's every document file of the entire
contents of Folder Documents of Home.
It's the object that's being targeted.
It's every document file of the
entire contents of Folder Documents
of Home whose name contains
Smith Project to the disk name backup.
And the action to perform is
duplicate to the disk name backup.
Now, here's an interesting split, right?
This is typical in the English language,
and it drives people crazy,
especially Germans,
when they're trying to
learn the English language,
is that you kind of split
things a lot with English.
But that's very typical.
The action to perform is duplicate
those items to the disk name backup.
Now, there'll be often times,
does any of this make sense?
Does that kind of make sense?
Groan if it does.
Okay.
You're going, yeah, it makes sense,
but I don't want to learn it.
I don't want to.
You can't make me learn it.
Oh, no.
Okay.
Now, there's times when you want to
do more than just one thing with
a group of a scriptable object,
right?
You might want to perform a
series of actions with it.
Well, instead of writing a
series of tell statements,
there's this construct in
AppleScript called a tell block.
And a tell block targets one or
more actions at a scriptable object.
It opens with a,
it has an opening statement.
Pardon me for a second.
This has no gin in it.
Okay.
[Transcript missing]
It gives you better visual organization.
So here's our same script again.
Now, you'll notice that the sections up
here all pertain to doing something
with the finder preferences.
Well, instead of writing each line,
"Set desktop shows removable media
of the finder preferences to false,"
and then doing that over and over,
we can put all of those statements
within their own tell block that talk
to the finder preferences object.
So to do that,
you do something like this.
[Transcript missing]
Now, the tell blocks only affect the
things that are within their scope.
The statements that are in blue
right now still are controlled by
the thing that's on the outside,
the outside tell block,
which is the finder.
So, we went from this to this.
That's an example of nested tell blocks.
Okay, so that's a basic
structure of AppleScript,
the tell block, nested tell blocks,
and then you come across these.
You'll see these quite a bit in
people that are learning the script,
you know, for the first time,
is they kind of walk the
object hierarchy using tells,
and it looks something like that.
You know, tell application finder
to tell home to tell home.
You know,
tell folder documents to tell folder
Smith project to tell every item,
set the label index to three,
set the comment to Smith project final,
and then you have all these closing enta,
enta, enta, enta, enta, enta.
Well, you know,
there's a more elegant way to do that,
and you'll probably end
up doing it yourself.
A much cleaner way to do
that is something like this,
where you have an outer tell
block that is the application,
and then an inner tell block
where you're opening part of that
statement is a little bit longer
reference to a particular object.
It doesn't have to be a single object.
It can be part of an object
that's in an object hierarchy,
in this case, folder documents of home.
And it's a tell block just
like any other tell block,
and the things that occur there
pertain to folder documents of the
Smith project folder of the finder,
of the home folder.
So that's an example of a...
[Transcript missing]
What does activate do?
It's kind of like tan hut.
It means come to the foreground.
If you're not already launched,
activate means launch the application.
The verb launch means open
but don't show any UI,
open up in the background.
Here's just a little other tip.
That's basically the
idea behind tell blocks.
Now you saw that I set a lot
of properties using the tell
statements in that tell block.
Here's just a shortcut for you.
With some applications like the Finder,
you can set all the properties in one
action by setting the property record.
Here you go.
Set the properties of the
Finder preferences to,
and then you'll notice that
there's this thing here.
There's a curly brace,
and it goes all the way
down there with stuff in it,
and it ends in a curly brace
over there where it says .668.
This is a record, a property record.
These are the key values
or the properties that
you're going to be setting,
and then there's the values
for those that match them.
They're separated by a colon.
So desktop shows hard
disk colon value false.
Desktop shows removable
media colon false.
Desktop shows connected service false.
So by executing this
one line of AppleScript,
you can set all of those properties
in one motion rather than having to
execute a series of tell statements.
That's just a little tip that
I'm giving you extra here.
Okay.
So that's tell blocks.
That's the basic structure of how
to write a script using a tell
statement where you're directing
an action at a specific scriptable
application or scriptable object.
A tell block, a tell statement only
uses a tell statement.
A tell statement always contains
a reference to the object that
you're going to control and the
action to do with that object.
Does that help clear up a
little bit of the mystery about
how tell statements are done?
A little bit different, isn't it?
Yeah, once you get used to it,
it's not so bad.
Well, let's look at some of the
AppleScript data types.
Like, what are the kind of things
that AppleScript can deal with?
Well, it deals with integers.
So there's some integers.
It deals with reels.
So there's some reels.
It deals with strings.
It deals with Booleans.
But we don't call them zero and one.
We call them true and false, right?
and it deals with lists.
This is a list.
You might call them arrays.
And they always begin with an open
curly brace and a closed curly brace,
and they can contain anything.
Any data type supported by
AppleScript can go inside the list,
even other lists like down there.
So you can have lists of lists of lists
of lists or lists of lists of lists
of lists or numbers and text together.
Lists are really, in AppleScript,
can contain whatever you like.
This is the record
that we just looked at.
It kind of looks like a list,
but it's really a set of key value,
key value, key value kind of things.
Those are the data types
that AppleScript supports.
There's probably some more in there too,
but those are the basic
ones that we need to know.
Any questions about those?
Okay.
Operators.
Well, let's look at these.
In addition,
we use the plus sign as a plus sign.
Think of AppleScript's operators
as the ones that you would
learn in the fourth grade.
We even have a rounding
control for AppleScript.
There's a verb for rounding, and it says,
round as taught in school.
and it takes from .5
up and stuff like that.
So there's addition.
Multiply, we use the asterisk.
[Transcript missing]
We also have an exponential,
which looks like this.
So that's 2 to the fourth power 16.
The square root of 4 would
be an exponential 0.5.
And we have concatenation for text.
So once upon a time and
in a village far away,
we used the ampersand character,
a single ampersand character,
as a way to concatenate
items in AppleScript.
In this case,
if you concatenated those two,
it would be once upon a
time in a village far away.
There's no space in there.
With AppleScript,
you can actually add a space by putting
the word "space" in between the two.
So once upon a time plus space in a
village far away would give you once
upon a time in a village far away.
As a matter of fact,
there's a couple special terms you
can use the word "space," "tab,"
or "return" for paragraph return,
anywhere in where you're
concatenating text together,
and AppleScript understands that.
You can can cat, can cat, can cat.
You can can add lists together.
You can join lists together.
[Transcript missing]
That's it.
That's our basic characters.
You see that we don't have cosine,
tangent, that kind of stuff.
AppleScript is kind of
weak on those areas.
There are subroutines you can do,
but it's often great just to
drop into the shell for a second,
do shell command,
and then cosine of blah,
and then take that and go out with it.
Let's look at some basic
coercions that AppleScript uses.
To coerce something,
you use the term as followed by the
class that you want to coerce to.
For example,
this text string of the character
1 as integer would give you
the number 1 as integer.
1 as a Boolean turns into true.
Naturally,
0 as a Boolean would turn into false.
1 as Unicode text turns
into 1 as Unicode text.
And Fred as a list turns
into a list of 1 with Fred.
These are some basic coercions that
you're going to use quite a bit when
you're in the world of AppleScript.
There's a couple more coercions we're
going to see as we go along here.
uses text item delimiters when you
want to course lists to strings.
Here is our list of people.
Sal Soobob.
When you course a list to a string,
you will get them all jumbled
together to Sal Soobob.
You will have this thing called
AppleScript's text item delimiters.
You can set AppleScript's text item
delimiters to whatever you want.
In this case, I'm using a dash.
Then I'm going to say, "Okay,
now take that same thing as Unicode
text." That would change it to this.
Then remember always to set your
delimiters back to a null string,
which is two straight quotes.
You don't want to leave your delimiter
set for something weird in case you
have another script that's using
delimiters and all of a sudden,
you're going to have to change it.
You don't want to leave your delimiter
set for something weird in case you
have another script that's using
delimiters and all of a sudden,
you're going to have to change it.
delimiters and all of a sudden
your stuff starts changing
because it's a global thing.
Which brings us up to
the topic of variables.
All right.
So, this is so great for me that I don't
have to explain what a variable is.
This is amazing.
Do you realize how hard that is to
explain this concept to somebody that's,
you know, not a programmer?
You know,
it's a container like a Tupperware.
You put stuff in, you take it out, right?
Yes.
So, I'm really, I am so thrilled.
You can use that.
You can use it.
So I'm so thrilled to be talking to
an educated group like yourselves.
Very handsome, I might add, too.
Because what I'm about to
tell you will drive you mad.
Okay, a variable to AppleScript,
it considers things variables
that any word or contiguous bit
of text that is not part of the
AppleScript language itself.
So when you're in the script editor,
you'll see words that are bolded.
Those are AppleScript's own words,
like every, tell, by, the,
those kind of things.
You can't use those as variables.
Also, the terminologies of
any scripting additions.
AppleScript has an extensible
architecture that uses these
things called scripting additions
to enhance the language.
They're global in scope,
so they work all the time,
regardless of whether you're
in a tell block or not.
So you have to be aware
of their terminologies,
too.
And finally, if you have a variable being
declared within a tell block,
you have to make sure that the name
of the variable that you're using
is not part of the application's
own scripting dictionary.
Variables can contain any data
type supported by AppleScript,
like numeric, textual, lists, references,
image data, booleans, enumerations,
records, whatever you like.
Variables do not need
to be declared or typed.
Whoa.
All variables are local
unless indicated otherwise.
Okay, so let's look at this.
Any word or contiguous text not part of
the AppleScript language or terminology.
So let's say, so X.
X is usually a good variable.
Here's one, page 12.
This underscore project.
The last strawberry.
You can even use words separated
by spaces as long as you put
the vertical pipes around them,
then they will be considered
a variable as well.
So, it's pretty flexible as to what you
want to call or name your variables.
Everybody has their own style of
variable naming and their own procedures
for doing it that make sense to them.
Use whatever you want.
AppleScript doesn't care.
For example, now in this instance,
you'll see that it says set folder
to path of the startup disk.
Well, it's trying to use folder,
the word folder, as a variable.
It can't do that because the word
folder is part of AppleScript.
You can't use that as a variable.
So what you can do instead is you set
a folder to path to the startup disk,
and then what happens is the path
to the startup disk is now placed
into the container called a folder.
The verb set is used to
instantiate that variable.
Here's another example.
Tell application iTunes,
"Set track to the first track "of
the front library playlist." Well,
the first track there can't be used
as a variable name because track
is part of the iTunes dictionary,
and it goes, mm-mm, does not compute.
So what you wanna do instead
is do something like this,
"Set this track to the first
track "of the front library
playlist." If you run it,
you get back some reference
that looks like this.
[Transcript missing]
Okay,
that's the basic idea behind variables.
Let's look at item references,
or how you refer to AppleScript objects.
This is the one thing you must know.
Scriptable objects are referred
to by their position in their
object hierarchy or where they
are in their chain of command.
In order to identify a
scriptable object to AppleScript,
you have to say it in
one of those manners.
You have to identify it as being
where it is in its chain of command.
For example,
Nested references.
There are different kinds of references.
There's nested references,
path references, alias references,
Unix references, and file URLs that
we're going to look at.
I'm going to focus a lot on the
finder and dealing with files,
because that's a common thing
that programmers have a hard
time dealing with AppleScript is,
"Okay, I've done everything I can to
move this file from here to there.
It won't do it.
What am I doing wrong?" Although the
same principles that we're going
to see here pertain to scriptable
objects within other applications like
iPhone or iTunes or QuickTime Player,
we're going to focus a little bit
on the finder so that you get some
hints about how to deal with files.
So let's look at a nested reference.
Nested references are described
in items positioned in its object
hierarchy from the bottom of the
chain all the way up to the top,
and they use the possessive term
"of" to identify containment
within that hierarchy.
in that hierarchy.
Nested references are the default
reference format returned by scriptable
applications such as the Finder,
System Events, or iTunes,
or Soundtrack Pro.
And they can also be used for other
applications besides files as well.
For example, folder document,
a folder username,
a folder users of startup disk.
You'll notice that it uses the
possessive of to indicate that it
belongs to folder username that
indicates the possessive of to indicate
that it's part of folder users,
that it also belongs to the startup disk.
Document file, cars,
PDF of folder documents,
a folder username of the folder
users of the startup disk.
Frame 13 of
Track Video Overlay of Movie 2.
That's a nested reference.
Text Box 4 of Page 2 of
Spread 13 of Document 1.
It's kind of like a mailing address,
right?
Sal Soghoian, 123 Elm Street, Anywhere,
USA.
That's how you're
identified by your location,
where you are in your object hierarchy,
where you are in your chain of command.
Transition 3 of Video Track 2
of Program 1 of Project TV.
So these kind of nested references
are the default format that
AppleScript applications return
when you request something.
When you're querying an application
to find a particular object,
you always get back
these nested references.
And they all use the possessive of
as a way to indicate containment.
Let's look at path references.
Now we're going to start
dealing with files.
So those are nested references
that the Finder uses,
that the System Events app uses,
and that other scriptable
applications use.
But let's look at some of the
other kind of file references.
And this is some of the stuff
that really gets people that
aren't familiar with AppleScript.
And we're working toward changing
this to make it universal,
but for right now,
this is your new nightmare.
Path references are used to
pass references to a disk item
to the finder system events.
They are text strings read left
to right that contain the names of
each item in the hierarchical chain,
and they're delineated by colons.
They are preceded with
a class identifier,
something like disk, folder, document,
file, or item.
And path references to folders
and disks always end with a colon.
Here are some examples.
A disk Macintosh HD colon.
So that's a path reference to a disk
that's mounted on your computer.
Folder Macintosh HD colon users
colon username colon documents colon.
So there's the path,
the HFS path to that particular folder,
and it's preceded with the
class identifier folder.
Item is a generic way
to talk about anything.
It could be a file or a folder or a font,
a suitcase or anything.
There again is a path.
Document file Macintosh
HD user Sal document,
same kind of idea.
Item is another generic
way to get to something.
So that's all within the finder.
You can use the system events app, too,
to talk, to refer to objects using these
kind of path things as well.
The only difference is that
the system events app uses the
class identifier file instead of
document file that the finder uses.
Now, you can construct that.
You can construct these things yourself
and then pass them to the app and place
the proper class thing in front of it,
and the app will respond
and work with it.
That's a path reference.
Alias references, they're universal.
All applications use alias
references and will accept them.
And they're very similar
to a path reference.
Only difference is that they are
preceded with the term alias,
and they're also referred to
items that are actually there.
So if you have an alias
reference to a font,
and you have an alias reference
to a file on your desktop,
and it's in your script,
you close the script,
move the thing on the desktop
to a different folder,
open your script back up, it will now be,
the alias reference will
now be in the new location.
So when you use an alias reference,
it has to be to something
that's not theoretical,
but actually on disk.
If you're using something theoretical,
then you can use a path and pass
that to the application instead.
can be used within or
without tell blocks.
Alias Macintosh HD.
Here is another one to a file.
POSIX references.
They are based upon the
Unispace architecture.
They are not usually supported
by scriptable applications.
There are a couple of scriptable
applications that will accept
them with the open command,
but generally you are better
off not using those and instead
coercing them into alias.
Let's look at some
examples of a POSIX path.
See, that's a typical thing.
And there's a quoted form, naturally,
on the end.
Now, POSIX references,
when you want to convert them
from a POSIX reference to an alias
that you can use with AppleScript,
there's a couple ways that you
can do that with AppleScript.
We do provide some light
out of the darkness.
There's this thing called
POSIXPATH in POSIXFile,
and it looks like this.
So the POSIXPATH,
if you want to derive the
POSIXPATH of an alias,
of an AppleScript alias reference,
you just put POSIXPATH of in front of it,
and you'll notice that you returned
the POSIXPATH to that particular
file or folder or whatever it is.
If you want the quoted form,
instead of having to use
concatenation with a bunch of strings,
just ask for the quoted
form of the POSIX path of,
and it will derive the POSIX path
for you and place it there.
Coercing POSIX Paths If you
want to go the other way and
change a POSIX path to a file,
then you use this as POSIX file,
and now you'll see it says File Macintosh
HD User Sal Documents that now you
can pass to a scriptable application.
If you want to coerce that to an alias,
do a double coercion
as POSIX file as alias,
and you've now gone from a POSIX path to
an alias reference that AppleScript uses.
Those are your lifesavers.
You can build little
subroutines with those,
and it becomes just an easy
thing to do back and forth.
Eventually,
we hope to make it so that you won't
have to worry about any of this stuff,
but for right now,
I want to give you guys the
truth and the good stuff.
File URLs are really interesting.
I never thought that anybody did
with them until I discovered guys
writing scripts that would generate
HTML and actually control their
drives based upon file references.
If you ask the Finder and
the System Events apps for
a file URL on something,
it looks like this.
Tell Application Finder to get the
URL of folder documents of home,
you actually get the real URL,
and it's also encoded
for you automatically,
too.
So then you can then take that and put
it into any HTML that you're generating
on the fly as well and use it that way.
But they're not usually
used with applications.
So when you want to
coerce reference types,
you can coerce these
following ones together.
You can coerce a nested reference to an
alias reference by just saying its alias,
path reference to an alias reference,
POSIX path to POSIX file
to an alias reference,
alias reference to a POSIX path.
All of those are possible.
Now here's an example.
Folder applications of the startup
disk is a nested reference.
I'm coercing it to an alias,
and now it becomes an alias.
Folder Macintosh HD:applications:
is a path reference.
I'm coercing it to an alias,
and now it becomes an alias reference.
POSIX path of alias Macintosh HD.
Now I get the POSIX path back and then
[Transcript missing]
You can get a range of
items by using index.
You can say items 2 through 5.
You can say get items 1 through minus 1,
which means the same
thing as saying this,
get every item of the startup disk.
And you can also,
since AppleScript is very verbose,
you can use words like first, second,
third, fourth.
You can even use first there,
get the first item of home.
You can use these kind of things, first,
23rd, 16th, 32nd.
The AppleScript language will
actually accept those as well.
Items can be referenced by
their position relative to other
items in that list of items.
You can use terms like front, first,
back, last, middle.
Get the last item of the startup disk,
the middle track of the front library.
You can use the words after or before.
The item before the last item,
the item after the middle item.
You can even do things randomly by
using the word "some" and it will return
some random item of the startup disk.
The second way to find things,
and this is really powerful,
this is where AppleScript cooks,
is by property.
For example, I could say,
"Everybody in the middle section
who's wearing a red shirt."
I just located a certain subset
of people based upon a property,
the color of their shirt.
Well,
AppleScript does that very well too,
because every scriptable item on
disk belonging to an application
usually has something like a name,
a kind, a size,
a creation modification date.
And you can use those
properties to locate items.
The first document file whose
name contains Smith Project.
The first folder whose size
is greater than 500,000.
Every document file
whose file type is JPEG.
Every document file whose
name extension is PDF.
So you can really use AppleScript to
locate the subset of things
that you want to manipulate.
And you construct queries,
and they're constructed
by combining this.
Oh, I'm going to love this.
My favorite part.
A positional indicator,
target object type, target container,
object specifier, target property,
comparison operator.
Yeah, target property, vague.
Okay.
I just wanted to say those things
because we never think about them,
but that's what they are anyway.
Here's a query.
The first document file of
home whose name contains Smith.
Well, the positional indicator is first.
That could be last, the second,
the third, every, whatever you want.
The target object type in
this case is a document file.
You could say folder.
You could say whatever
object you're looking for,
track, you know, movie.
This is your target container
that you're looking to search.
That could be an application.
That could be a directory.
Object specifier, whose.
You could also use where on occasion.
Target property.
You're looking for the name property and
the comparison you're using contains.
You could say does not contain,
is not in, is part of, is not in,
is part of.
No, I don't know.
You can't say part of.
Does not contain, doesn't contain,
is greater than or equal to,
is less than.
All of the comparison
operators you can use.
And then there you can look,
change the value.
So if we wanted to do that, we could say,
well, I'm going to use this.
I'm going to use this.
And then I can change the value.
And then, you can change the value.
And then you can change the value.
And then you can change
the value of the query.
To have some other thing
like Smith project,
AC stats, things like that.
Now, if you want to search every folder
within a folder using the finder,
you just say document file,
the entire contents of folder
documents of home whose
name contains Smith project.
And that does all of your
iterations and recursive routine
for you all in one statement.
So this is an example of how
Apple script can find things.
Here's another one.
You can combine your searches
by using the word and.
Application finder to get the first
item in the startup disk whose name
begins with S and name ends with folder.
It returns something.
Here's another case of and.
Every document file's name
extension is in this list and
name contains Smith project.
And you can use both of them together.
So you can say every document file of
folder pictures of home whose file type
is JPEG or name extension is in this
list and name contains Smith project.
So using these kind of
queries with Apple script,
you can really locate things to work
with very easily in a single line.
Instead of iterating,
you can really locate them all at once.
You can do four repeat
loops and stuff like that.
You just use one line of Apple script to
find the objects that you're looking for.
Now we're going to
look at something else.
Special folders.
A common thing that programmers
often have a problem with is
once they understand how to find
things and how to use these paths,
they come up against the generic problem.
You want to write a script that works
on someone else's machine and you want
to get to one of the designated folders.
But you don't know how to do it
because you're trying to construct
paths by piecing things together,
getting the user name and inserting that.
You don't need to.
Designated folders on the computer
are part of Apple script's repertoire.
Now the finder has four locations
that it knows about itself,
the startup disk, home,
desktop and trash.
So when you say desktop in a script,
it doesn't make any difference
how the user has named their drive
or any of their other structures.
It will find that folder for you
and return you the path that's
appropriate to the machine.
Therefore, your script is generic and you
can use it the way that you want.
So here's an example.
Every item in the desktop,
everything of home.
And you can tell it to empty the trash.
There's also a path to command and
it has four domains that you can use.
So if I want to say path to the
library folder from the user
domain will give me this reference,
this alias reference
to the user's library.
Here's the local library at top level.
Here's the system library and
there's the network library.
So the path to command has a lot of
the designated folders of the OS built
into it and they're written in English.
So they used to use these
codes here on the left.
But now since Panther,
we now have implemented
the words in there.
Thank you, Cheryl, very much.
So now it just becomes easy to
say path to any of these folders
and it will get you to the path
to the local folder that you need.
And then you can work your way down
to where you're trying to get to.
And so how do you do that?
Well, here's an example.
You say set the parent folder to the path
to the document folder as Unicode text.
You're breaking it down into a path.
Then you say set the item
path to the parent folder
plus this name of this file.
And that joins them together.
And then you say set this item
to the item path as alias.
And then that turns it as an alias.
But what you really want to do is do all
of that in one clean and waxed motion.
And then you're going to see
that the item path is going
to be in one motion like this,
using nice parens.
Notice the parens.
This item to the path to the document
folder as Unicode text gets done first.
Then it gets concatenated and then
it gets coerced into an alias,
all in one motion.
So that's using special folders to
locate the particular things that
you're looking for and then using
those to get to where you want.
The system events app uses those
terms documents folders natively.
So you can just use those within
a system event app as well.
Info tools.
Let's look at a couple of a
couple additional tools here.
You also have some other tools,
the list disk, list folder,
info for command and system info record
that give you information about files.
You'll live and die on these commands.
They're very useful for you.
List disk is a very simple command.
You point it, you say list disks,
and it gives you a list of the disks
that are mounted on your computer.
If you say list folder and you
point it to a particular folder,
you say without invisibles,
it gives you a list of all the
names of the items in the folder.
If you want the invisibles,
then you get the dot names as well.
The info for is a really powerful
command that descriptors use a lot.
Info for, you give it the path to a
particular file or folder,
and it returns a record
that looks like this.
Again,
a record contains the key value pairs.
So here are some of the keys that
pertain to that particular file.
The record that you get back changes
depending upon what kind of item
you're asking information for,
and then it matches the
values that go with that.
So you can get very important
things like the version,
its busy status over here
to see if the file's open,
its file type, its extension,
is it hidden, its icon position,
the creation date,
those kind of information you can get
very quickly with a single command.
So you get all the information
about a file that you need
to know to start working with
it with the info for command.
And then there's a new one
in Tiger called System Info,
and System Info gives you the
basic information about the OS,
including the Ethernet address.
And the system version,
the home directory, the computer name,
and the IP4 version address as well.
Those are things that you
often want to use in scripts,
and now you have a single
place to go to use them.
So clean and wax is basically
what we just talked about earlier,
was finding something and then putting
a verb before it to do something.
Like delete every file of the startup
disk whose name contains Smith Project.
Or move every file of the startup.
Or move every file of the startup disk
whose name contains Smith Project to
the folder named backup.
It's where you do a find and
then place a verb before it.
But that just works with a single item.
Now we need to learn the conditionals
and the repeat structures and the error
handlers that allow us to go beyond that.
So conditional statement.
Okay, so we have a dialogue here.
Display dialogue,
your prize is behind the door.
This is a command to bring up a
user interface that looks like this
where the user has three buttons.
When they click a button,
the result of that is returned
as a record with a key value
of button return and a value of
whatever button they pressed.
So we're going to use this command here
to demonstrate how conditionals work.
Okay, display dialog.
If the button returned
to the result is A,
then say no prize here.
So here's our command,
and then this is our conditional.
This is a conditional statement.
It's a single-line conditional.
Just one condition on a single line.
It begins with the if,
and then it has the thing
that's comparing if the button
returned is the result A.
Then it has the verb, I mean,
then it has the word then,
and then the action
to do based upon that.
So that's a single-line conditional.
then it has the word "then" and then
the action to do based upon that.
So that's a single line conditional.
So in the first comparison,
if the button return
to the result is not B,
then you're going to do what that says.
Otherwise, you have an else.
This is a catch-all.
It's not a specific.
It's just whatever else goes
to this particular action here.
In this case, we have it set up so that
B is the winning door and
A and C are the losing ones.
Now, if you want to do three,
then you can do something like this,
where you have your command,
and then you have a statement
where you're copying the value
of the button pressed into a
variable called button pressed.
Then you're comparing it.
If it's A, then you say you want a pizza.
Now you have something called else if.
For each other condition that's
not the generic catch-all of else,
you use else if.
Else if the button pressed is B,
then you do this.
[Transcript missing]
Repeat loops.
Let's take a look at these.
Here's some of your basic
repeats in AppleScript.
Repeat, if you begin a repeat,
you end a repeat.
So it's always this in AppleScript.
If you begin a tell, you end a tell.
If you begin a if, you end a if.
If you begin a repeat, you end a repeat.
This is your most fundamental repeat,
and you give it a number of times,
and then it does
whatever's inside of there.
Here's an example of repeat while.
Repeat while some condition is being met.
It has your basic repeat structure.
There's your conditional
while this number mod 2 is 0,
and then it executes.
You have repeat until,
the same kind of structure, a repeat,
and then there's the one
until this number mod 2 is 0.
[Transcript missing]
Here's another example.
Here we go, and this time I'm going
to just use a repeat,
same kind of thing,
and I'm going to copy one of the items
from the list and display it in a dialog.
So when I run this, it runs four times,
each time displaying a different
dialog as it goes from the
left to the right of the list.
Now, you can also, say,
change your starting number.
In this case, I'm starting from three to
the count of the friends list.
So in that case, I get two dialogs,
right, because I'm starting from
the third item in the list.
I can go change the,
where I want to end my repeat.
So in this case,
I'm getting three dialogs
from the first to the third.
See how this works?
Now, in this case, here we go again,
I'm going by two.
Notice the by two.
So in this case,
it skips every other one in the list,
and you can iterate every other
object in the list by adding
the by two to your repeat.
Now, if you want to go
backwards down your list,
you go I from the count of the
friends list to one by minus one.
And now we get Scarlett, Carl, Sue,
and then the Sal.
You can also do the skip every other
one in reverse and get Scarlett
and Sue by adding by minus two,
and that's your basic repeat structures.
So you have your conditionals,
your basic repeats.
Here's your error handlers.
Fred as integer.
If we try doing Fred as integer,
you'll get this.
You get an error because you can't
coerce the word Fred into an integer,
right?
Well, if we want to protect
ourselves from that,
we can do this thing called the
try statement or error handler.
If you begin a try, you end a try,
just like anything else in AppleScript.
You start, you end it,
and anything in between,
if there's an error,
it just doesn't post the error
and the script continues.
It doesn't stop.
It just continues.
Now, if we want to do something
with that error handler,
then we try something like this.
Fred as integer.
Now, you'll notice that we have the
try opening and closing here,
and now we have this new thing
in the middle called onError.
So, any script statements before that,
if one of those cause an error,
it jumps down to where it says onError
and then executes whatever you have in
between the onError and the end try.
In this case,
we have a dialogue that will
display saying there was a problem.
Not too useful, but at least it lets the
user know something happened.
We control the error, not the OS,
and when the user clicks
the cancel button,
the script will stop.
If we want to do something that
has a little bit more meaning,
we can get the error message that's
returned from the system by placing
a variable after the onError,
and then use that variable down there in
our script so that now we get the error
message that was created by the system.
In this case,
can't make Fred into an integer.
So here's another example.
You'll notice in this one,
we're starting off the script.
It's going to ask the user
for a file that's a JPEG.
Then it's going to use the image events
application to flip it horizontally.
Now, in that open dialogue where you're
asking the user to find a file,
if they click the cancel button,
you'll get this, right?
It'll drop down because it's
throwing a -128 cancel error,
and it will display this.
Well, the user knows that they canceled.
They don't need to see that again.
So how do we take care of that situation?
Well, we do it by...
[Transcript missing]
Subroutines and Handlers I'll
give you a quick one on this one.
Here's some routines where
I'm using the save verb to say
something using different voices.
It's a pain to write that.
We can turn it into a nice
little subroutine like this.
This is the subroutine.
It's at the bottom of your script.
You usually put them there.
You notice that it has a name, speak,
and it has pass parameters here
that you used inside the subroutine.
To call it,
you just call it from within your
script by using the name of it
and passing in some parameters.
So that will be your subroutine.
Now, if you have the subroutine and
it's within a tell block from
another application like this,
then you'll have to put the word my
before the subroutine so that the script
knows that that subroutine belongs to the
script and the finder won't look for it
in its own dictionary and throw an error.
And that's how you use subroutines.
You can use the open handler.
It looks like this.
I open these items.
You get this.
You save your,
your script as an application,
and it becomes a droplet just
by having an open handler in it.
When you have an open handler,
anything that's dragged onto it
will be put into these items.
They will be references to the
files or folders or whatever
it is you drag onto them.
They look like this.
You'll look at it in the slides when
you get home later tonight and go,
oh, okay, cool.
This automatically searches them and
then does a process for you over here.
This one other handler
I wanted to show you,
this is the idle handler.
Here's one that speaks the time every 15,
every 10 minutes,
and you'll notice that it has
an idle handler like this.
It has on idle and end idle,
and it has this,
there's the things that happen,
and at the end, you return the value
that you want to wait.
You save this as a self-running
application and make sure that you
have the stay open thing saved,
and now you have a script that
runs in the background and
will do whatever you want.
So that's just a little bit about, well,
I don't know,
I don't know if you've ever heard of it,
but it's a little bit about, well,
but it's a little bit about,
what AppleScript is.
I was amazed that we actually
got through all that.
That's pretty good.
And we don't have any time for questions,
but what I want you to do is
instead come to the hands-on lab,
come visit the AppleScript team,
go to the AppleScript website,
and also download this
presentation and use it.
Thank you so much.
Appreciate it.